Literature review of embodied cognition in music:

Here is an abstract you recommended to me and I found useful:
The Role of Embodiment in the Perception of Music by MARC LEMAN and PIETER-JAN MAES

ABSTRACT: Since its breakthrough at the beginning of the twenty-first century, the
embodied music cognition theory has inspired empirical research on the role of actionperception
couplings in musical activities. The integration of novel technologies and
analysis methods inspired empirical research advancing knowledge regarding the role
of embodiment in music perception and musical signification processes. In this paper,
we present recent and on-going research in the field of embodied music cognition, with
a focus on studies conducted at IPEM, the research laboratory in systematic musicology
at Ghent University, Belgium. Attention is devoted to encoding/decoding principles
underlying musical expressiveness, synchronization and entrainment, and action-based
effects on music perception. The discussed empirical findings demonstrate that
embodiment is only one component in an interconnected network of sensory, motor,
affective, and cognitive systems involved in music perception. Currently, these findings
drive the embodiment theory towards a more dynamical approach in which the
interaction between various internal processes and the external environment are of
central importance. Additionally, this approach envisions practical outcomes in the field
of music affect research, wellbeing, healing, sports, music engineering, and brain
studies.

Here is the second one: 

Music Is in the Muscle: How Embodied Cognition May
Influence Music Preferences

music is intimately connected with body movements. Until recently, research has almost exclusively
examined the impact of music on body movements. Yet
findings on embodied cognition in other domains suggest that the influence might also work in the opposite
direction: Real or imagined body movements during
music listening may codetermine music preferences. We
had participants listen to music and concurrently activate muscles whose innervation has been shown to be
associated with “positive” and “negative” affect (activation vs. inhibition of smiling muscles, vertical vs. horizontal head movements, and arm flexion vs. arm
extension). Activation of the positively associated muscle groups led to higher preference ratings for the music
pieces than activation of the negatively associated ones.
A first exploration of candidate explanations for the
effect suggests that it is most likely due to conditioning
processes. It is concluded that body movements, both
real and imagined, may play an important role in the
development of music preferences. 

I will be using both articles, and finding other ones along similar lines,
to research how embodied cognition can affect perception in music and different approaches towards listening or performing music. 

This week, I plan to narrow down my research topic by either focusing on dance or learning a particular instrument.
In this process I hope to better understand how the relationship between the body and mind influences someone's ability to perform music 
well and an individual's unique approach to music. 

I will also start writing summaries of the articles and thinking of ways to present this research.
