Performed 1 interview:
1. with someone very experienced in protools

results and transcript: (notes)

https://docs.google.com/document/d/13vNVpKF4uHXFyO5Tw7NmLyermy39QDVwKhOEjaPZ5YE/edit?usp=sharing

I got a lot of good results from this interview; it lets me focus my work on a few things:
pain points from user:
- small buttons on plug-ins
- the general complicated layout/look of certain plug-ins that are based off of real hardware

I also found from this interview with a more "experienced" user that difficulties that come from this tool are simply because it
may look too imposing; one of the reasons why he didn't go through with learning the program when he first used it in 2015.

taking actual classes where you go through the steps of learning this tool is like taking music classes for your instrument.

This user has experience in many different types of instruments but is not "professional" with any one and does not maybe extermely high level
music. However, this does give him the skill of listening, which essentially is what a user does with this digital "instrument". 

The goal of this device is to get the sound one would like, whether through MIDI or recording.

The main points I can improve on with this program are the plug-ins and extensions.

I have found that hotkeys emulate what one would experience when learning an instrument. There is a form of muscle memory here, that allows
a skilled user to cut the time spent thinking about how to perform an action and actually performing an action.

This user has spent a lot of time working on building hotkey skills and can perform basic actions in this program very easily and incredibly
familiar with it, so there are few pain points for him.
His main focus now is developing his listening skills so that he can become a better recording engineer. To be a good recording engineer, 
mastery of this software is important, as well as is listening.

External devices that allow you to adjust settings tactily is a potential solution to this issue, another example of learning through
sensorimotor movements. 


Next week(this week) I plan on interviewing someone who has experience composing music in a different DAW (FLStudios) and another user who is
experienced in Logic, which I learned is more user-friendly and appearance friendly.

This will allow me to better understand different goals people have and how those interfaces work to help support their goals. 
