Literature reviews:
Embodied Musical Meaning by Mark L. Johnson

Emotions felt in music have the same emotional contour as physical emotions felt through the body. 
For example, balance, an emobodied experience, is metaphorically felt in the same way through experiencing music,
or solving a balanced math equation. The qualitions of things we can feel and logically understand physically, such as "time,
events, causes, action, mind, and reason" are metaphorically translaed in music as "force, pitch, tempo, meter, rhythm, and timbre."
Image schemes are part of the structure of music experience. An example would be the "Source-Path-Goal" structure, which is also 
experienced physically when moving fast or slow, or seeking goals. 
Key word: Vitality affect - structure and qualit yof the process and flow of our emotional experience"
these vitality affect structures are amodal, where such an experience can be translated from one sense to another.

The Role of Emobodiment in the Perception of music by Marc Leman and Pieter-Jan Maes
This article addresses different areas of research done on embodied cognition in music, and the effects of this research. 
We now know that the sensorimotor system has an effect on our perception of music, for example when dancing 
we are able to more easily break down the rhythmn of a complex song, such as in samba music. We translate complex musical
motifs into something understood by the body. Another example of this is how dance music allows us to recognize patterns in music
by allowing us to anticipate what will happen next in a piece. 
One concreate result of understanding music through our bodies is creating an app that aligns with the speed of movement,
like speed of running, likely by detecting the BPM of a song and matching that with the pace of our movement. Our bodies can be entrained (synchronized to music)
through changing beats, volumes, emotions in music. Our emotions also play a role in understanding music. 
Responsive gesturing in music was also found to have commonalities, such as in listening to a perforamnce of the chinese guqin. These gestures
seem to be basic components of a larger more complex movement exhibited by the body language of the performer, so there is a clear connection
between bodily encoding and decoding of musical meaning. 


Music is in the Muscle: How Embodied Cognition May Influence Musical Preferences by Peter Sedlmeier, Oliver Weigelt, and Eva Walther

This article investigates whether or not simple bodily gestures can affect one's preference for music. The study investigated whether certain
"positively" viewed gestures, such as smiling, nodding, or bring one's arm back towards oneself compared to "negatively viewed" gestures,
such as not smiling, shaking one's head, or moving one's arm away from oneself, can influence one's preference on music they have never
heard before. It was predicted that positive gestures would influence positive feelings for neutral music, and vice versa. The results support the 
hypothesis but cannot be conclusive as this was a general experiment, only testing neutral music in a small population.
This however does introduce the question of whether conditioned bodily effects affect one's emotions, which later affects one's opinions
towards a certain type of music. Dance, again, is brought up to show that positive movements performed while dancing can stablize one's preferred 
taste in music over time. The article concludes that performing positive actions that one has learned over time influences ones' perception
of music. Music likely co-evolved with motion and there is a clear interaction between one's understanding and familiarity of music with one's
bodily movements. This article also mentions how even envisioning a positive emotion, or watching someone else perform a positive emotion
can evoke a positive emotional response from the viewer. 

////////
Design Research Question/End Product Ideas 

From the articles I've read this week, I believe that it would be interesting to research how bodily movements allow us to recognize or predict
patterns in music, such as in learning a new instrument. I would like to  examine or imagine a new way to learn an instrument like the piano, guitar, violin, drums 
(though I would like to discuss which is best for this project, because I am still a bit uncertain on what the end product I create may be). 
I could potentially do more research on how to create diagrams or how to learn to play the violin like your research in the Strings Project?
I would probably need to do more research on visualizations and how that relates to learning how to perform an instrument. 


Another idea I could research could be how bodily limitations may affect one's capacity to learn music or percieve music. Maybe by researching
how early exposure to dance/learning how to drum leads people to have a better ability to understand rhythm, or maybe how performing
an instrument can influence one's understanding of musical metaphors?  Also unsure what an end project could be.

